So csrf protection is an important thing and to support that or to add it to the app,
I'll quit my server and I'll install another package with npm install --save, the name of the
package
is csurf, this is a package for node express which allows us to generate a so-called csrf token.
Basically a token, a string value
we can embed into our forms, so into our pages for every request that does something on the backend that
changes the users state,
so anything like ordering something, anything that does something sensitive which we want to protect
against. We can include such a token in our views then and on the server,
this package will check if the incoming request does have that valid token.
Now how does this protect us?
Well the fake sites might send a request to your backend and they could theoretically use your session
therefore but the requests will be missing the token and they can't guess the token because it's a random
hashed value and only one value is valid of course and the package here which runs on the server determines
whether a token is valid, so they can't guess it and they also can steal it because a new token is generated
for every page you render.
So with that package installed, let's rerun npm start and let's use that csurf package
and how do we use it? To enable csrf protection,
we go to our app.js file and in there
first of all at the top, let's import this package, I'll name the constant csrf and I'll require the csurf
package.
Please note the package is named csurf,
the tag pattern is csrf,
that is why I named the constant like this,
you can name it however you want of course.
Now we can create a new constant where we initialize this
you could say, so down there maybe where we initialized some other things too, I'll initialize my csrf
protection by executing csrf as a function.
Now you can pass an object here where you can configure some things, for example that you want to store
the secret that is used for assigning your token, so for hashing them, that you want to store them in
a cookie instead of the session which is the default
but I want to use the session, the default
and we also don't need to set any of the other values, you can dive into the official docs of that package
to learn more but the default settings should work fine. So with that, we get this csrf protection middleware
here and we now just have to use that as a middleware.
So here after we initialized the session,
that's important because csrf, the package will use that session now. After we initialized the
session, I'll add csrf protection,
so basically the constant which holds my created middleware here.
So now with that, csrf protection is generally enabled but we still need to add something to our views
to really use it.
Right now if I save this and I go back to my app and I reload this page, this works, if I go to orders
this works, if I logout,
this fails, I get an invalid csrf token here and this is already showing us how we or what we have to
do in general.
It failed here because that logout action here actually was a post request
and for any non-get requests because you change data via post requests typically, for any such requests,
this package will look for the existence of a csrf token in your views, in the request basically in
the request body. Now to make sure that such a token is there,
we first of all need to ensure we have it available in our views, to do that
we have to pass data into our view.
So let's say I'm on the starting page slash nothing,
so in the controller actions, that is my get index action, this one.
Now here we would have to pass a new piece of information into the render method, you could name it csrf
token, that name is up to you and you get it from request
and then there, there will be a csrf token method.
This method is provided by the csrf middleware which we added by this package.
So now this will generate such a token and we'll store it in csrf token which we then can use in our
view and there we could use it for example in the navigation where I have my logout button form. In there
we would have to add input which is hidden
so that no real input is rendered but where the value now is a value we output with the help of ejs
and that value here will be our csrf token and the name here is just a field I'm storing that
token in when rendering that view,
this field, csrf token. With that if I reload this page, let's inspect the logout button here
in the developer tools
and let's make sure that in the navigation.ejs file, we don't just add it to the mobile logout button
but also in the other menu here.
So with that changed, let me reload this and now when inspecting the logout button, you will see that there
we also have that input with the value of this token and this here is the csrf token which was generated
by the package.
If I now click on logout, I still get an error here though,
the reason for that is that my package csrf does not know that this hidden input contains my token,
it's just a hidden input without any name.
So what we have to do is we also have to give this a name and here important, the name has to be _csrf
because the package which we added will look for this name,
so for an input with that name and the same of course should be done here in the mobile login button.
Now with that if we reload this view, if I click logout,
now it works because now the package is able to extract that csrf token.
It also finds out that the token is valid and therefore it allows us to proceed,
so now it's not just a session that matters but also the existence of this token.
Now we can add this to all our render functions because we need it in all our routes but that would
be a bit cumbersome,
so let me show you an easier way of getting data like this or also isAuthenticated into every page
we render and not just some.